### Fully Convolutional Networks for Semantic Segmentation



**摘要**

> Convolutional networks are powerful visual models that
yield hierarchies of features. We show that convolutional
networks by themselves, trained end-to-end, pixelsto-
pixels, exceed the state-of-the-art in semantic segmentation.
Our key insight is to build “fully convolutional”
networks that take input of arbitrary size and produce
correspondingly-sized output with efficient inference and
learning. We define and detail the space of fully convolutional
networks, explain their application to spatially dense
prediction tasks, and draw connections to prior models. We
adapt contemporary classification networks (AlexNet [19],
the VGG net [31], and GoogLeNet [32]) into fully convolutional
networks and transfer their learned representations
by fine-tuning [4] to the segmentation task. We then define
a novel architecture that combines semantic information
from a deep, coarse layer with appearance information
from a shallow, fine layer to produce accurate and detailed
segmentations. Our fully convolutional network achieves
state-of-the-art segmentation of PASCAL VOC (20% relative
improvement to 62.2% mean IU on 2012), NYUDv2,
and SIFT Flow, while inference takes less than one fifth of a
second for a typical image.

FCN对图像进行像素级的分类，从而解决了语义级别的图像分割（semantic segmentation）问题。

FCN与CNN的区域在把于CNN最后的全连接层换成卷积层，输出的是一张已经Label好的图片


[论文地址](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1411.4038.pdf)

### U-Net: Convolutional Networks for Biomedical Image Segmentation

**摘要**

> There is large consent that successful training of deep net-
works requires many thousand annotated training samples. In this pa-
per, we present a network and training strategy that relies on the strong
use of data augmentation to use the available annotated samples more
efficiently. The architecture consists of a contracting path to capture
context and a symmetric expanding path that enables precise localiza-
tion. We show that such a network can be trained end-to-end from very
few images and outperforms the prior best method (a sliding-window
convolutional network) on the ISBI challenge for segmentation of neu-
ronal structures in electron microscopic stacks. Using the same net-
work trained on transmitted light microscopy images (phase contrast
and DIC) we won the ISBI cell tracking challenge 2015 in these cate-
gories by a large margin. Moreover, the network is fast. Segmentation
of a 512x512 image takes less than a second on a recent GPU. The full
implementation (based on Caffe) and the trained networks are available
at http://lmb.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/people/ronneber/u-net.



[论文地址](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1505.04597.pdf)
